Welcome back.
Now, what I'm going to show you is that I'm going to show you a simple registration system that doesn't
take into account hashing, password, encrypting passwords.
And this is a big problem.
And if you don't do this, any hacker who could who steals your your database will be able to get passwords
and use passwords of different users you have in the system.
So let me show you what you can do.
First of all, let me show you the bad practice that many developers follow and how you can avoid this.
First of all, we have this registration system that allows users to register using their username,
email, a password.
There is no problem with this.
With this user interface, there's no problem with it.
We would normally have any any website would normally have a user name, email, a password to allow
users to register.
But the problem, the main problem is in the script itself, that registers users here.
First of all, we have the here the I'm using here.
They might really object to use the prepared statement to avoid any excusable injection.
And then here I have a statement that's going to check if a user has provided me with the username and
the email or the password.
And then here I got the email and the password and and the and the name and stored them in valuables.
And then here I have that a prepared statement, a escrow statement that insert into user's table.
And what I'm going to insert is the user name, which is, which is this column username.
Use a name and then use an email, which is this column.
And finally, the user password, which is this column and then values and then question marks because
I'm using the prepare statement and then here bind param.
And what I'm binding is that I'm binding three strings.
The first string is the name which is which is this which is going to be stored under the username,
the email which is going to be stored under the user email.
And finally the password which is going to be stored under, under the password field in the database.
And as you can see, you need to follow the the order.
You need to have these in order.
So if you start with the username, you need to say name.
If the user email is the second parameter here, you need to say email.
If the password is this third parameter, you need to say password.
Then I just have here a excuse to exclude this statement.
And then in case of success, I'm going to say here success or I'm going to say, let's say account
created.
And as.
Been successfully false.
In case of false, I'm going to say failed.
To get an account.
So this is the this is the script that's going to get the account.
And by the way, there is absolutely no problems with it.
The script is perfect, except for only one thing.
There's only one, I would say.
There is one problem with this problem.
There is one problem.
So what is the problem?
Probably we will find out what the problem is shortly.
ZELENY Use this script to register a user letting you create an account.
I'm going to say here, let me here zoom in.
Let's get you that account.
So here I'm going to say admin and then the email say admin at example.
Dot com.
And then the password, let's say one, two, three, four, five, and then I'm going to click on register.
So in case of success, as you can see, it's going to say account has been created successfully, I
should say here.
By the way.
You should say here.
Successfully.
So in case of success, it's going to it's going to say account has been created successfully.
And, of course, if you heading over to the database, you should find that account.
Let me refresh the table at the user's table and see whether this account has been created or not.
And, of course, the the account has been created.
However, the problem is the problem is the user name of the user.
The user password is a plain text.
As you can see, the password has been stored as well as is one, two, three, four, five.
And this is a big problem.
Why?
This is a big problem.
This is a big problem because if a hacker steals your database, they will be able to to get the the
passwords of any user you have in the database.
And this is a terrible mistake that many developers do.
Make.
This is a big mistake that many developers make, and you have to avoid this mistake.
How can you avoid this mistake and never make this mistake ever again?
Well, you can here.
And you should.
You should encrypt your password.
You should encrypt the password.
So how can you encrypt password?
There are many ways to encrypt the password.
According to BHP, the best the.
The best way to to to hash or encrypt a password is to use a function called password.
Underscore hash.
And they pass pass this year.
Pass the password here and then the second.
The second parameter is a.
Is a VI is a constant called password default.
And then all you need to do is to store this in the password.
So instead of saying instead of storing the password as is, we need to use the password hash and then
store it in the password variable.
Let me now click on free on file and then see all the let me now test one more time.
So let me now create a new account.
Now let me refresh.
Let me let me go back first.
Let me refresh and let's create a new account.
So I'm going to say here admin one and then I'm going to say admin one at example dot com and then I'm
going to say one, two, three, four, five.
Now let me click on register and show you the difference here.
As you can see, it's going to say account has been created successfully.
However, in the database now, if I refresh my user stable, you will find that as you can see, the
password is not has not been stored as a plaintext.
The password has been hashed.
As you can see, the password is a big combination of characters that a hacker would not be able to
know what this is.
And by the way, it's very difficult to kind of decrypt this.
This is very difficult for hackers to do so.
So this is how you can you can you can encrypt your password and you should always do this.
And you might be wondering, how can you verify the password?
Well, in order to verify the password.
Once the user tries to log in.
So I'm assuming that the user has has registered and maybe you have a log in form in order to log users
and you need to use a function called pass or underscore verifying.
This function is going to take the passwords from the user password.
And that's going to verify this password against against the password that you have in your database.
So upon logging in, you need to get the password from the database.
You will get the password from the database and they pass it year by year and verify it against the
password that will be passed by the user and check whether whether they match or not.
If they match, then you need to log users in.
Otherwise you need to block users from logging in because because the passwords don't match.
So let me show you the manual given by BHP, by the official manual given by BHP.
As you can see here, this is the password, the hash function.
So this is the password hash.
It takes the password.
And the second parameter is the password algorithms.
And here what I wanted to show you is that I wanted to show you the verification here.
In order to verify the user, you need to use the function here.
The.
The this function the password to verify this password to verify the extra parameters.
It takes the password and it takes the hash to password.
So in order to log user in, you need to get the hash password and then compare it with the password
that will be given by your by your user.
And this is a way this is only one way to encrypt passwords.
There is other there is another way that you can use and these functions are the MD5 as well as the
is h a function which is this function.
Which is also this function is a one.
And this function can also be used for or for passwords.
So these two functions can be used.
And I'm going to be showing you an example right now how to use these two functions.
It's very simple.
All you need to do is just replace the password wi fi with the S one or the MD5.
So let me show you how you can use the MD5 function.
So for the modify function you just need to replace the password hash with empty five and it takes only
one parameter.
So I'm going to remove the second parameter and whenever you want to log the user and you just need
to use the function again.
So this function, you should be used both in the log, in script and in the registration script.
Very simple.
You don't need to do anything special.
All you need to do is to get the user password from the user opposite to the MD5 in both in the registration,
which is the script.
And if you have a log in script, you need to do the same thing and leaning out this and show you how
this is going to work.
So let me refresh and let's get another account.
I'm going to say admin three and then I'm going to say admin at three at example.
Dot com.
And then I'm going to type a password and then I'm going to click on register.
Here it says, account has been created successfully.
Now in the database, let me refresh and show you the new account.
So the new account was the new account is is admin three.
And as you can see, it has the password has been encrypted and this is the password.
Obviously, this is not the password that I typed.
So this is the encrypted password.
So this is how you can encrypt passwords.
And you need to follow you need to follow this technique.
Otherwise, your your database will be vulnerable against attacks from several developers, several
hackers who could steal your your database and could steal passwords of different people.